So with regards to
the concept behind hooks, for
example line 11 const pets setPets,
what is setPets?
I noticed we never declared
a setPets function elsewhere,
is that the declaration?
>> Yeah, so you can think of pets and
setPets here is pets is a theta state.
And setPets is a state updater, right.
So it's a function that you
can call the dispatcher.
So if you look at it here
the name of the type, right.
It's basically like I have something
now that I want to update.
So that pets comes back next time on
the next rerender as this, right.
So wherever you call setPets
whether it's gonna blow whatever is
in pets is something brand new.
Does that makes sense.
>> Yeah.
>> Then what about the assignment when we
say equals useState and
pass in an argument.
>> Right, so this is peculiar.
This is the way that the React
team chose to do this.
I think most people had
not seen this before.
So it kind of melted
their mind a little bit.
But let's just break this down,
this is called destructuring.
So I'm gonna make two things and
these two things are gonna be
totally equivalent to each other.
So I'm gonna say const petHook = useState,
like that, right.
This is now an array of two things.
The first thing is the state the second
thing is the state setter right,
or the state updater.
So then now pets equals petHook[0].
And const setPets
Equals petHook[1].
These two things do precisely the same
thing one this is just shorter.
Now you're probably wondering yourself,
but
how comes up with that kind of API, right.
This doesn't make any sense.
The reason why they did this is it's
just quick and easy to write and
you write hooks or useState quite a bit.
So it's faster, right.
Since no one asked here's
how I would have done it.
Like state pet or it's,
we doing the right way anyway, yeah.
SetState: setPet.
UseState block, right,
this gets a little bit more explicit if
this is destructuring an object, right.
So that then you know now that I think
I did this the opposite way, though.
So maybe this is bad because I can't
remember which order the things go in, but
it becomes more obvious.
This is the state and
this is the setState as opposed to
this just being an implicit order.
Or a tuple if you will, or tuple but
it's actually tuple but
I like to say tuple instead.
>> And I'm curious and
maybe this doesn't make a lot of sense.
But so line 7, 8,
9 const location, animal, breed,
they all are assigned useState state
with an empty string passed to it.
But does the hook then still know there's
a difference between them based on that
first argument?
>> Let's say it a different way.
>> [LAUGH] So
even though we've assigned useState
with an empty string to each of those.
Is it something to do with that
first parameter either location,
animal or breed.
That makes the hook kinda
recognize that those are separate?
>> Got it, okay.
So when you call useState,
it's keeping track of the order
of what you call these, right.
So you might think this will
give you back the same thing.
But it's giving them back a different
piece of state every single time.
This thing that you give it here,
it's the initial state.
>> Okay.
>> So this is an empty string.
This is a different empty string.
It is an empty string, but it's
a different one, different empty string.
And this is a yet different one, right.
And so
here we're giving it an empty array.
But after this gets set the first time, it
doesn't matter whatever was there, right.
That's just for
the very first rendering call.
You can basically think of what
React is doing is it's just waiting.
It calls this function and
then it counts which one is giving.
And so it's giving you back
just first one gets this one.
The second one gets this one,
the third one gets this one, right.
>> And that's why you
established that the order that
>> [CROSSTALK] It's critical.
>> Essential in the loop state and
things like that are invalid.
>> Cool, makes sense?
>> Yeah.
>> Cool, good questions.